README.md, before:

# pymince

[![CI](https://github.com/rmoralespp/pymince/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rmoralespp/pymince/actions?query=event%3Arelease+workflow%3ACI)
[![pypi](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pymince.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pymince)
[![versions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/pymince.svg)](https://github.com/rmoralespp/pymince)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/rmoralespp/pymince/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/rmoralespp/pymince)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/rmoralespp/pymince.svg)](https://github.com/rmoralespp/pymince/blob/main/LICENSE)

### About
pymince is a collection of useful tools that are "missing" from the Python standard library.


### Installation (via pip)

```pip install pymince```

### Tests

```
(env)$ pip install -r requirements.txt   # Ignore this command if it has already been executed
(env)$ pytest tests/
(env)$ pytest --cov pymince # Tests with coverge
```

### Usage
| dictionary.py | file.py | iterator.py | json.py | logging.py | retry.py | std.py | text.py |
| -------------: | -------: | -----------: | -------: | ----------: | --------: | ------: | -------: |
| [DigestGetter](#DigestGetter) | [ensure_directory](#ensure_directory) | [all_distinct](#all_distinct) | [dump_into](#dump_into) | [StructuredFormatter](#StructuredFormatter) | [retry_if_none](#retry_if_none) | [bind_json_std](#bind_json_std) | [remove_decimal_zeros](#remove_decimal_zeros) |
| [all_true_values](#all_true_values) | [is_empty_directory](#is_empty_directory) | [all_equal](#all_equal) | [load_from](#load_from) | [timed_block](#timed_block) |  |  | [remove_number_commas](#remove_number_commas) |
| [frozendict](#frozendict) | [match_on_zip](#match_on_zip) | [consume](#consume) |  |  |  |  | [replace](#replace) |
| [key_or_leaf_value](#key_or_leaf_value) | [open_on_zip](#open_on_zip) | [grouper](#grouper) |  |  |  |  | [string2bool](#string2bool) |
|  |  | [has_only_one](#has_only_one) |  |  |  |  | [string2year](#string2year) |
|  |  | [non_empty_or_none](#non_empty_or_none) |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  | [pad_end](#pad_end) |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  | [pad_start](#pad_start) |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  | [replacer](#replacer) |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  | [splitter](#splitter) |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  | [uniquer](#uniquer) |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  | [uniques](#uniques) |  |  |  |  |  |

#### dictionary.py *Useful functions that use dictionaries*
##### DigestGetter
```
DigestGetter(include_keys=None, exclude_keys=None)

Calculate a digest of a "jsonified" python dictionary.

:param include_keys: dictionary keys to exclude
:param exclude_keys: dictionary keys to include
:rtype: str

Examples:
    from pymince.dictionary import DigestGetter

    getter = DigestGetter(include_keys=("a",))
    getter({"a": 1, "b": 1}) # --> bb6cb5c68df4652941caf652a366f2d8
    getter({"a": 1}) # --> bb6cb5c68df4652941caf652a366f2d8
```
##### all_true_values
```
all_true_values(dictionary, keys)

Check if an dictionary has all specified keys and
key-related values as True.

:param dict dictionary:
:param keys: keys sequence
:rtype: bool

Examples:
from pymince.dictionary import all_true_values

all_true_values({"a": 1, "b": 2}, ("a", "b")) # --> True
all_true_values({"a": 1, "b": 0}, ("a", "b")) # --> False
all_true_values({"a": 1, "b": 0}, ("a",)) # --> True
```
##### frozendict
```
frozendict(*args, **kwargs)

Returns a "MappingProxyType" from a dictionary built according to given parameters.
Add immutability only on a first level.

Examples:
    from pymince.dictionary import frozendict

    my_dict = frozendict(a=1, b=2)
    my_dict["a"] # --> 1
    list(my_dict.items())  # --> [("a", 1), ("b", 2)]
```
##### key_or_leaf_value
```
key_or_leaf_value(key, dictionary)

Find leaf key in dictionary.

:param str key: Key to find.
:param dict dictionary:

Examples:
    from pymince.dictionary import key_or_leaf_value

    key_or_leaf_value('a', {}) # --> 'a'
    key_or_leaf_value('a', {'a': 'b', 'b': 'c'}) # --> 'c'
    key_or_leaf_value('a', {'a': 'a'}) # --> 'a'
```
#### file.py 
##### ensure_directory
```
ensure_directory(path, cleaning=False)

Make sure the given file path is an existing directory.
If it does not exist, a new directory will be created.

:param str path:
:param bool cleaning:
    If "cleaning" is True and a directory already exists,
    this directory and the files contained in it will be deleted.

    If "cleaning" is True and a file already exists,
    this file will be deleted.
```
##### is_empty_directory
```
is_empty_directory(path)

Function to check if the given path is an empty directory.

:param str path:
:rtype: bool
```
##### match_on_zip
```
match_on_zip(zip_file, pattern)

Make an iterator that returns file names in the zip file that
match the given pattern.
Uppercase/lowercase letters are ignored.

:param zip_file: instance of ZipFile class
:param pattern: "re.Pattern" to filter filename list
:return: Iterator with the filenames found

Examples:
    import pymince.file
    pymince.file.match_on_zip(zip_file, "^file") # --> file1.log file2.txt
```
##### open_on_zip
```
open_on_zip(zip_file, filename)

Open a file that is inside a zip file.

:param zip_file: instance of ZipFile class
:param str filename:

Examples:
-------------------------------------------------
import zipfile
from pymince.file import open_on_zip

with zipfile.ZipFile(zip_filename) as zf:
    # example1
    with open_on_zip(zf, "foo1.txt") as fd1:
        foo1_string = fd1.read()
    # example2
    with open_on_zip(zf, "foo2.txt") as fd2:
        foo2_string = fd2.read()
-------------------------------------------------
```
#### iterator.py *Functions that use iterators for efficient loops*
##### all_distinct
```
all_distinct(iterable, key=None)

Check if all the elements of a key-based iterable are distinct.

:param iterable:
:param key: None or "Callable" to compare if iterable items.
:rtype: bool

Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import all_distinct

    all_distinct([1, 1]) # --> False
    all_distinct([1, 2]) # --> True
```
##### all_equal
```
all_equal(iterable, key=None)

Check if all the elements of a key-based iterable are equals.

:param iterable:
:param key: None or "Callable" to compare if iterable items.
:rtype: bool

Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import all_equal

    all_equal([1, 1]) # --> True
    all_equal([1, 2]) # --> False
```
##### consume
```
consume(iterator)

Completely consume the given iterator.

Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import consume
    it = iter([1, 2])
    consume(it)
    next(it) # --> StopIteration
```
##### grouper
```
grouper(iterable, size)

Make an iterator that returns each element being iterable
with "size" as the maximum number of elements.

:param iterable:
:param int size: maximum size of element groups.

Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import grouper

    groups = grouper([1, 2, 3, 4, 5], 2)
    list(list(g) for g in groups) # --> [[1, 2], [3, 4], [5]]
```
##### has_only_one
```
has_only_one(iterable)

Check if given iterable has only one element.

:param iterable:
:rtype: bool

Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import has_only_one

    has_only_one([1]) # --> True
    has_only_one([1, 2]) # --> False
    has_only_one([]) # --> False
```
##### non_empty_or_none
```
non_empty_or_none(iterator)

Returns an non-empty iterator or None according to given "iterator".

:param iterator:
:return: Iterator or None

Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import non_empty_or_none

    non_empty_or_none([]) # --> None
    non_empty_or_none([1,2]) # --> 1 2
```
##### pad_end
```
pad_end(iterable, length, fill_value=None)

The function adds "fill_value" at the finishing of the iterable,
until it reaches the specified length.
If the value of the "length" param is less than the length of
the given "iterable", no filling is done.

:param iterable:
:param int length: A number specifying the desired length of the resulting iterable.
:param any fill_value: Any value to fill the given iterable.
:rtype: Generator

 Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import pad_end

    pad_end(("a", "b"), 3, fill_value="1") # --> "a" "b" "1"
    pad_end(("a", "b"), 3) # --> "a" "b" None
    pad_end(("a", "b", "c"), 3) # --> "a" "b" "c"
```
##### pad_start
```
pad_start(iterable, length, fill_value=None)

The function adds "fill_value" at the beginning of the iterable,
until it reaches the specified length.
If the value of the "length" param is less than the length of
the given "iterable", no filling is done.

:param iterable:
:param int length: A number specifying the desired length of the resulting iterable.
:param any fill_value: Any value to fill the given iterable.
:rtype: Generator

 Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import pad_start

    pad_start(("a", "b"), 3, fill_value="1") # --> "1" "a" "b"
    pad_start(("a", "b"), 3) # --> None "a" "b"
    pad_start(("a", "b", "c"), 3) # --> "a" "b" "c"
```
##### replacer
```
replacer(iterable, matcher, new_value, count=-1)

Make an iterator that returns all occurrences of the old "iterable"
replaced by "new_value".

:param iterable:
:param matcher: Callable to find occurrences. It is an occurrence if the matcher returns True.
:param new_value: Any value to replace found occurrences.
:param int count:
    Maximum number of occurrences to replace.
    -1 (the default value) means replace all occurrences.

Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import replacer

    replacer([1,2,3,1,2,3], lambda n: n == 1, None) # --> None 2 3 None 2 3
    replacer([1,2,3,1,2,3], lambda n: n == 1, None, count=1) # --> None 2 3 1 2 3
```
##### splitter
```
splitter(iterable, sep, key=None, maxsplit=-1)

Split iterable into groups of iterators according
to given delimiter.

:param iterable:
:param sep: The delimiter to split the iterable.
:param key
    A function to compare the equality of each element with the given delimiter.
    If the key function is not specified or is None, the element itself is used for compare.

:param maxsplit:
    Maximum number of splits to do.
    -1 (the default value) means no limit.

:return: Generator with consecutive groups from "iterable" without the delimiter element.

Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import splitter

    data = ["a", "b", "c", "d", "b", "e"]

    undefined_split = splitter(data, "b")
    one_split = splitter(data, "b", maxsplit=1)
    list(list(s) for s in undefined_split) # --> [["a"], ["c", "d"], ["e"]]
    list(list(s) for s in one_split) # --> [["a"], ["c", "d", "b", "e"]]
```
##### uniquer
```
uniquer(iterable, key=None)

Make an iterator that returns each element from iterable only once
respecting the input order.

Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import uniquer

    uniquer([1, 2, 3, 2]) # --> 1 2 3
```
##### uniques
```
uniques(iterable, key=None)

Check if all the elements of a key-based iterable are unique.

:param iterable:
:param key: None or "Callable" to compare if iterable items.
:rtype: bool

Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import uniques

    uniques([1,2]) # --> True
    uniques([1,1]) # --> False
```
#### json.py 
##### dump_into
```
dump_into(filename, payload, indent=2)

Dump JSON to a file.

Examples:
    from pymince.json import dump_into

    dump_into("foo.json", {"key": "value"})
```
##### load_from
```
load_from(filename)

Load JSON from a file.

Examples:
    from pymince.json import load_from

    dictionary = load_from("foo.json")
```
#### logging.py 
##### StructuredFormatter
```
StructuredFormatter(fmt=None, datefmt=None, style='%', validate=True)

Implementation of JSON structured logging that works
for most handlers.

Examples:
    import logging
    import sys
    from pymince.logging import StructuredFormatter

    # Config
    logger = logging.getLogger()
    logger.setLevel(logging.DEBUG)
    formatter = StructuredFormatter('%(message)s')
    handler = logging.StreamHandler(sys.stdout)
    handler.setLevel(logging.DEBUG)
    handler.setFormatter(formatter)
    logger.addHandler(handler)

    # Usage
    logger.debug('', {"string": "value1", "number": 1})
    logger.debug('', {"string": "value2", "number": 2})

    >>Output<<
    {"timestamp":"2022-06-17 18:37:48,789","level":"DEBUG","payload":{"string":"value1","number":1}}
    {"timestamp":"2022-06-17 18:37:48,789","level":"DEBUG","payload":{"string":"value2","number":2}}
```
##### timed_block
```
timed_block(name, logger=None)

Logger the duration of the handled context.

Examples:
    import logging
    from pymince.logging import timed_block

    logging.basicConfig(level=logging.DEBUG)
    with timed_block("sleeping"):
        time.sleep(1)

    >>Output<<
    INFO:root:Generating [sleeping]
    DEBUG:root:Finished [sleeping in 1.002 ms.]
```
#### retry.py 
##### retry_if_none
```
retry_if_none(delay=0, tries=1)

Returns a retry decorator if the callback
returns None.

:param int delay: seconds delay between attempts. default: 0.
:param int tries: number of attempts. default: 1

Examples:
    @retry_if_none(delay=0, tries=1)
    def foo():
        return 1
```
#### std.py 
##### bind_json_std
```
bind_json_std(encoding='utf-8')

Decorator to call "function" passing the json read from
"stdin" in the keyword parameter "data" and dump the json that the callback returns
to "stdout".

Examples:
from pymince.std import bind_json_std

@bind_json_std()
def foo(data=None):
    print("Processing data from sys.stdin", data)

    result = data and {**data, "new": "value"}

    print("Result to write in sys.stdout", result)
    return result
```
#### text.py *Useful functions for working with strings.*
##### remove_decimal_zeros
```
remove_decimal_zeros(value, decimal_sep='.', min_decimals=None)

Removes non-significant decimal zeros from a formatted text number.

Examples:
    from pymince.text import remove_decimal_zeros

    remove_decimal_zeros("2.000100", ".") # --> "2.0001"
    remove_decimal_zeros("2.000000", ".") # --> "2"
    remove_decimal_zeros("2.000000", ".", min_decimals=2) # --> "2.00"
```
##### remove_number_commas
```
remove_number_commas(string)

Removes commas from a formatted text number having commas
as group separator.

:param str string:
:rtype str

Examples:
    from pymince.text import remove_number_commas
    remove_number_commas('1,234,567.8') # --> '1234567.8'
```
##### replace
```
replace(value, old_values, new_value, count=-1)

Replace matching values ​​in the given string with new_value.

:param str value:
:param old_values: iterable of values ​​to replace.
:param str new_value: replacement value.
:param int count:
    Maximum number of occurrences to replace.
    -1 (the default value) means replace all occurrences.
:rtype: str

Examples:
    from pymince.text import replace

    replace("No, woman, no cry", [","], ";") # --> "No; woman; no cry"
    replace("No, woman, no cry", [","], ";", count=1) # --> "No; woman, no cry"
```
##### string2bool
```
string2bool(value, ignorecase=False)

Function to convert a string representation of
truth to True or False.

:param str value: value to convert.
:param bool ignorecase: Uppercase/lowercase letters of given "value" are ignored.

:raise: "ValueError" if "value" is anything else.
:rtype: bool

Examples:
    from pymince.text import string2bool

    string2bool("true") # --> True
    string2bool("false") # --> False

    string2bool("TRUE") # --> ValueError
    string2bool("TRUE", ignorecase=True) # --> True

    string2bool("FALSE") # --> ValueError
    string2bool("FALSE", ignorecase=True) # --> False
```
##### string2year
```
string2year(value, gte=None, lte=None, shift=None)

Function to convert a string year representation to integer year.

:param str value: Value to convert.
:param Optional[int] gte: if it is specified is required that: year >= gte
:param Optional[int] lte: if it is specified is required that: year <= lte
:param Optional[int] shift: use a two-digit year on shift

:raise: "ValueError" if "value" cannot be converted.
:rtype: int

Examples:
    from pymince.text import string2year

    string2year("53", shift=None) # --> 2053
    string2year("53", shift=1953) # --> 1953
    string2year("52", shift=1953) # --> 2052
    string2year("54", shift=1953) # --> 1954

    string2year("1954") # --> 1954

    string2year("123") # --> ValueError
    string2year("1955", gte=1956) # --> ValueError
    string2year("1955", lte=1954) # --> ValueError
```
### Upgrade README.md

Upgrade README.md `Usage` section according to current *pymince* code.
```
(env) python upgrade_readme_usage.py
```

Commit message:

Added dict_from_iterable helper

README.md, after:

# pymince

[![CI](https://github.com/rmoralespp/pymince/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rmoralespp/pymince/actions?query=event%3Arelease+workflow%3ACI)
[![pypi](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pymince.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pymince)
[![versions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/pymince.svg)](https://github.com/rmoralespp/pymince)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/rmoralespp/pymince/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/rmoralespp/pymince)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/rmoralespp/pymince.svg)](https://github.com/rmoralespp/pymince/blob/main/LICENSE)

### About
pymince is a collection of useful tools that are "missing" from the Python standard library.


### Installation (via pip)

```pip install pymince```

### Tests

```
(env)$ pip install -r requirements.txt   # Ignore this command if it has already been executed
(env)$ pytest tests/
(env)$ pytest --cov pymince # Tests with coverge
```

### Usage
| dictionary.py | file.py | iterator.py | json.py | logging.py | retry.py | std.py | text.py |
| -------------: | -------: | -----------: | -------: | ----------: | --------: | ------: | -------: |
| [DigestGetter](#DigestGetter) | [ensure_directory](#ensure_directory) | [all_distinct](#all_distinct) | [dump_into](#dump_into) | [StructuredFormatter](#StructuredFormatter) | [retry_if_none](#retry_if_none) | [bind_json_std](#bind_json_std) | [remove_decimal_zeros](#remove_decimal_zeros) |
| [all_true_values](#all_true_values) | [is_empty_directory](#is_empty_directory) | [all_equal](#all_equal) | [load_from](#load_from) | [timed_block](#timed_block) |  |  | [remove_number_commas](#remove_number_commas) |
| [dict_from_iterable](#dict_from_iterable) | [match_on_zip](#match_on_zip) | [consume](#consume) |  |  |  |  | [replace](#replace) |
| [frozendict](#frozendict) | [open_on_zip](#open_on_zip) | [grouper](#grouper) |  |  |  |  | [string2bool](#string2bool) |
| [key_or_leaf_value](#key_or_leaf_value) |  | [has_only_one](#has_only_one) |  |  |  |  | [string2year](#string2year) |
|  |  | [non_empty_or_none](#non_empty_or_none) |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  | [pad_end](#pad_end) |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  | [pad_start](#pad_start) |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  | [replacer](#replacer) |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  | [splitter](#splitter) |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  | [uniquer](#uniquer) |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  | [uniques](#uniques) |  |  |  |  |  |

#### dictionary.py *Useful functions that use dictionaries*
##### DigestGetter
```
DigestGetter(include_keys=None, exclude_keys=None)

Calculate a digest of a "jsonified" python dictionary.

:param include_keys: dictionary keys to exclude
:param exclude_keys: dictionary keys to include
:rtype: str

Examples:
    from pymince.dictionary import DigestGetter

    getter = DigestGetter(include_keys=("a",))
    getter({"a": 1, "b": 1}) # --> bb6cb5c68df4652941caf652a366f2d8
    getter({"a": 1}) # --> bb6cb5c68df4652941caf652a366f2d8
```
##### all_true_values
```
all_true_values(dictionary, keys)

Check if an dictionary has all specified keys and
key-related values as True.

:param dict dictionary:
:param keys: keys sequence
:rtype: bool

Examples:
from pymince.dictionary import all_true_values

all_true_values({"a": 1, "b": 2}, ("a", "b")) # --> True
all_true_values({"a": 1, "b": 0}, ("a", "b")) # --> False
all_true_values({"a": 1, "b": 0}, ("a",)) # --> True
```
##### dict_from_iterable
```
dict_from_iterable(iterable, key_getter, value_getter)

Create a new dictionary from "iterable" using "key_getter" and
"value_getter" to generate its items.

:param Iterable[any] iterable:
:param Callable key_getter: Function to generate the dictionary keys from elements of iterable.
:param Callable value_getter: Function to generate the dictionary values from elements of iterable.

:raise: ValueError if any generated key is duplicate.
:rtype: dict

Examples:
    from pymince.dictionary import dict_from_iterable

    keygetter = operator.itemgetter(0)
    valgetter = operator.itemgetter(1, 2)
    values = iter([(1, "a", "b"), (2, "a", "b")])
    dict_from_iterable(values, keygetter, valgetter) # --> {1: ('a', 'b'), 2: ('a', 'b')}
```
##### frozendict
```
frozendict(*args, **kwargs)

Returns a "MappingProxyType" from a dictionary built according to given parameters.
Add immutability only on a first level.

Examples:
    from pymince.dictionary import frozendict

    my_dict = frozendict(a=1, b=2)
    my_dict["a"] # --> 1
    list(my_dict.items())  # --> [("a", 1), ("b", 2)]
```
##### key_or_leaf_value
```
key_or_leaf_value(key, dictionary)

Find leaf key in dictionary.

:param str key: Key to find.
:param dict dictionary:

Examples:
    from pymince.dictionary import key_or_leaf_value

    key_or_leaf_value('a', {}) # --> 'a'
    key_or_leaf_value('a', {'a': 'b', 'b': 'c'}) # --> 'c'
    key_or_leaf_value('a', {'a': 'a'}) # --> 'a'
```
#### file.py 
##### ensure_directory
```
ensure_directory(path, cleaning=False)

Make sure the given file path is an existing directory.
If it does not exist, a new directory will be created.

:param str path:
:param bool cleaning:
    If "cleaning" is True and a directory already exists,
    this directory and the files contained in it will be deleted.

    If "cleaning" is True and a file already exists,
    this file will be deleted.
```
##### is_empty_directory
```
is_empty_directory(path)

Function to check if the given path is an empty directory.

:param str path:
:rtype: bool
```
##### match_on_zip
```
match_on_zip(zip_file, pattern)

Make an iterator that returns file names in the zip file that
match the given pattern.
Uppercase/lowercase letters are ignored.

:param zip_file: instance of ZipFile class
:param pattern: "re.Pattern" to filter filename list
:return: Iterator with the filenames found

Examples:
    import pymince.file
    pymince.file.match_on_zip(zip_file, "^file") # --> file1.log file2.txt
```
##### open_on_zip
```
open_on_zip(zip_file, filename)

Open a file that is inside a zip file.

:param zip_file: instance of ZipFile class
:param str filename:

Examples:
-------------------------------------------------
import zipfile
from pymince.file import open_on_zip

with zipfile.ZipFile(zip_filename) as zf:
    # example1
    with open_on_zip(zf, "foo1.txt") as fd1:
        foo1_string = fd1.read()
    # example2
    with open_on_zip(zf, "foo2.txt") as fd2:
        foo2_string = fd2.read()
-------------------------------------------------
```
#### iterator.py *Functions that use iterators for efficient loops*
##### all_distinct
```
all_distinct(iterable, key=None)

Check if all the elements of a key-based iterable are distinct.

:param iterable:
:param key: None or "Callable" to compare if iterable items.
:rtype: bool

Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import all_distinct

    all_distinct([1, 1]) # --> False
    all_distinct([1, 2]) # --> True
```
##### all_equal
```
all_equal(iterable, key=None)

Check if all the elements of a key-based iterable are equals.

:param iterable:
:param key: None or "Callable" to compare if iterable items.
:rtype: bool

Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import all_equal

    all_equal([1, 1]) # --> True
    all_equal([1, 2]) # --> False
```
##### consume
```
consume(iterator)

Completely consume the given iterator.

Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import consume
    it = iter([1, 2])
    consume(it)
    next(it) # --> StopIteration
```
##### grouper
```
grouper(iterable, size)

Make an iterator that returns each element being iterable
with "size" as the maximum number of elements.

:param iterable:
:param int size: maximum size of element groups.

Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import grouper

    groups = grouper([1, 2, 3, 4, 5], 2)
    list(list(g) for g in groups) # --> [[1, 2], [3, 4], [5]]
```
##### has_only_one
```
has_only_one(iterable)

Check if given iterable has only one element.

:param iterable:
:rtype: bool

Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import has_only_one

    has_only_one([1]) # --> True
    has_only_one([1, 2]) # --> False
    has_only_one([]) # --> False
```
##### non_empty_or_none
```
non_empty_or_none(iterator)

Returns an non-empty iterator or None according to given "iterator".

:param iterator:
:return: Iterator or None

Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import non_empty_or_none

    non_empty_or_none([]) # --> None
    non_empty_or_none([1,2]) # --> 1 2
```
##### pad_end
```
pad_end(iterable, length, fill_value=None)

The function adds "fill_value" at the finishing of the iterable,
until it reaches the specified length.
If the value of the "length" param is less than the length of
the given "iterable", no filling is done.

:param iterable:
:param int length: A number specifying the desired length of the resulting iterable.
:param any fill_value: Any value to fill the given iterable.
:rtype: Generator

 Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import pad_end

    pad_end(("a", "b"), 3, fill_value="1") # --> "a" "b" "1"
    pad_end(("a", "b"), 3) # --> "a" "b" None
    pad_end(("a", "b", "c"), 3) # --> "a" "b" "c"
```
##### pad_start
```
pad_start(iterable, length, fill_value=None)

The function adds "fill_value" at the beginning of the iterable,
until it reaches the specified length.
If the value of the "length" param is less than the length of
the given "iterable", no filling is done.

:param iterable:
:param int length: A number specifying the desired length of the resulting iterable.
:param any fill_value: Any value to fill the given iterable.
:rtype: Generator

 Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import pad_start

    pad_start(("a", "b"), 3, fill_value="1") # --> "1" "a" "b"
    pad_start(("a", "b"), 3) # --> None "a" "b"
    pad_start(("a", "b", "c"), 3) # --> "a" "b" "c"
```
##### replacer
```
replacer(iterable, matcher, new_value, count=-1)

Make an iterator that returns all occurrences of the old "iterable"
replaced by "new_value".

:param iterable:
:param matcher: Callable to find occurrences. It is an occurrence if the matcher returns True.
:param new_value: Any value to replace found occurrences.
:param int count:
    Maximum number of occurrences to replace.
    -1 (the default value) means replace all occurrences.

Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import replacer

    replacer([1,2,3,1,2,3], lambda n: n == 1, None) # --> None 2 3 None 2 3
    replacer([1,2,3,1,2,3], lambda n: n == 1, None, count=1) # --> None 2 3 1 2 3
```
##### splitter
```
splitter(iterable, sep, key=None, maxsplit=-1)

Split iterable into groups of iterators according
to given delimiter.

:param iterable:
:param sep: The delimiter to split the iterable.
:param key
    A function to compare the equality of each element with the given delimiter.
    If the key function is not specified or is None, the element itself is used for compare.

:param maxsplit:
    Maximum number of splits to do.
    -1 (the default value) means no limit.

:return: Generator with consecutive groups from "iterable" without the delimiter element.

Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import splitter

    data = ["a", "b", "c", "d", "b", "e"]

    undefined_split = splitter(data, "b")
    one_split = splitter(data, "b", maxsplit=1)
    list(list(s) for s in undefined_split) # --> [["a"], ["c", "d"], ["e"]]
    list(list(s) for s in one_split) # --> [["a"], ["c", "d", "b", "e"]]
```
##### uniquer
```
uniquer(iterable, key=None)

Make an iterator that returns each element from iterable only once
respecting the input order.

Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import uniquer

    uniquer([1, 2, 3, 2]) # --> 1 2 3
```
##### uniques
```
uniques(iterable, key=None)

Check if all the elements of a key-based iterable are unique.

:param iterable:
:param key: None or "Callable" to compare if iterable items.
:rtype: bool

Examples:
    from pymince.iterator import uniques

    uniques([1,2]) # --> True
    uniques([1,1]) # --> False
```
#### json.py 
##### dump_into
```
dump_into(filename, payload, indent=2)

Dump JSON to a file.

Examples:
    from pymince.json import dump_into

    dump_into("foo.json", {"key": "value"})
```
##### load_from
```
load_from(filename)

Load JSON from a file.

Examples:
    from pymince.json import load_from

    dictionary = load_from("foo.json")
```
#### logging.py 
##### StructuredFormatter
```
StructuredFormatter(fmt=None, datefmt=None, style='%', validate=True)

Implementation of JSON structured logging that works
for most handlers.

Examples:
    import logging
    import sys
    from pymince.logging import StructuredFormatter

    # Config
    logger = logging.getLogger()
    logger.setLevel(logging.DEBUG)
    formatter = StructuredFormatter('%(message)s')
    handler = logging.StreamHandler(sys.stdout)
    handler.setLevel(logging.DEBUG)
    handler.setFormatter(formatter)
    logger.addHandler(handler)

    # Usage
    logger.debug('', {"string": "value1", "number": 1})
    logger.debug('', {"string": "value2", "number": 2})

    >>Output<<
    {"timestamp":"2022-06-17 18:37:48,789","level":"DEBUG","payload":{"string":"value1","number":1}}
    {"timestamp":"2022-06-17 18:37:48,789","level":"DEBUG","payload":{"string":"value2","number":2}}
```
##### timed_block
```
timed_block(name, logger=None)

Logger the duration of the handled context.

Examples:
    import logging
    from pymince.logging import timed_block

    logging.basicConfig(level=logging.DEBUG)
    with timed_block("sleeping"):
        time.sleep(1)

    >>Output<<
    INFO:root:Generating [sleeping]
    DEBUG:root:Finished [sleeping in 1.002 ms.]
```
#### retry.py 
##### retry_if_none
```
retry_if_none(delay=0, tries=1)

Returns a retry decorator if the callback
returns None.

:param int delay: seconds delay between attempts. default: 0.
:param int tries: number of attempts. default: 1

Examples:
    @retry_if_none(delay=0, tries=1)
    def foo():
        return 1
```
#### std.py 
##### bind_json_std
```
bind_json_std(encoding='utf-8')

Decorator to call "function" passing the json read from
"stdin" in the keyword parameter "data" and dump the json that the callback returns
to "stdout".

Examples:
from pymince.std import bind_json_std

@bind_json_std()
def foo(data=None):
    print("Processing data from sys.stdin", data)

    result = data and {**data, "new": "value"}

    print("Result to write in sys.stdout", result)
    return result
```
#### text.py *Useful functions for working with strings.*
##### remove_decimal_zeros
```
remove_decimal_zeros(value, decimal_sep='.', min_decimals=None)

Removes non-significant decimal zeros from a formatted text number.

Examples:
    from pymince.text import remove_decimal_zeros

    remove_decimal_zeros("2.000100", ".") # --> "2.0001"
    remove_decimal_zeros("2.000000", ".") # --> "2"
    remove_decimal_zeros("2.000000", ".", min_decimals=2) # --> "2.00"
```
##### remove_number_commas
```
remove_number_commas(string)

Removes commas from a formatted text number having commas
as group separator.

:param str string:
:rtype str

Examples:
    from pymince.text import remove_number_commas
    remove_number_commas('1,234,567.8') # --> '1234567.8'
```
##### replace
```
replace(value, old_values, new_value, count=-1)

Replace matching values ​​in the given string with new_value.

:param str value:
:param old_values: iterable of values ​​to replace.
:param str new_value: replacement value.
:param int count:
    Maximum number of occurrences to replace.
    -1 (the default value) means replace all occurrences.
:rtype: str

Examples:
    from pymince.text import replace

    replace("No, woman, no cry", [","], ";") # --> "No; woman; no cry"
    replace("No, woman, no cry", [","], ";", count=1) # --> "No; woman, no cry"
```
##### string2bool
```
string2bool(value, ignorecase=False)

Function to convert a string representation of
truth to True or False.

:param str value: value to convert.
:param bool ignorecase: Uppercase/lowercase letters of given "value" are ignored.

:raise: "ValueError" if "value" is anything else.
:rtype: bool

Examples:
    from pymince.text import string2bool

    string2bool("true") # --> True
    string2bool("false") # --> False

    string2bool("TRUE") # --> ValueError
    string2bool("TRUE", ignorecase=True) # --> True

    string2bool("FALSE") # --> ValueError
    string2bool("FALSE", ignorecase=True) # --> False
```
##### string2year
```
string2year(value, gte=None, lte=None, shift=None)

Function to convert a string year representation to integer year.

:param str value: Value to convert.
:param Optional[int] gte: if it is specified is required that: year >= gte
:param Optional[int] lte: if it is specified is required that: year <= lte
:param Optional[int] shift: use a two-digit year on shift

:raise: "ValueError" if "value" cannot be converted.
:rtype: int

Examples:
    from pymince.text import string2year

    string2year("53", shift=None) # --> 2053
    string2year("53", shift=1953) # --> 1953
    string2year("52", shift=1953) # --> 2052
    string2year("54", shift=1953) # --> 1954

    string2year("1954") # --> 1954

    string2year("123") # --> ValueError
    string2year("1955", gte=1956) # --> ValueError
    string2year("1955", lte=1954) # --> ValueError
```
### Upgrade README.md

Upgrade README.md `Usage` section according to current *pymince* code.
```
(env) python upgrade_readme_usage.py
```
